The access of the DNA raw data and the trimmed data are here:
https://bk-genomica.cebas.csic.es:5001/sharing/blQRAvELn

The scripts folder contains all script needed to complete the analysis for variant calling in this study. A more depth explication of the process can be found here: https://github.com/CBC-UCONN/Variant-Calling.


Brieﬂy, in order to evaluate the general quality of reads in each ﬁle the FastQC v0.11.9 was used. The command used can take multiple ﬁles as input and outputs a quality report in html format. After that, low quality bases and/or adapter contamination were removed from reads using the techniques in Joshi et al 63. This step would discard any read trimmed shorter than 45bp. FastQC was run again on the trimmed data to conﬁrm and ensure the ﬁnal quality of reads. After this second quality control (QC) step, and before the alignment step, the reference genome was indexed using the command index of BWA v0.7.17. Then, the V. vinifera 12Xv2 reference genome 64 of the strain PN40024 (GCA_000003745.2) was used to align the reads using BWA v0.7.17 65. BWA is one of the most widely used short-read aligners. BWA implements several alignment methods, but mem was selected. Reads were aligned with the default parameters. The output from an aligner such as BWA are in Sequence Alignment/Map (SAM) format. After this process the SAM ﬁles were compressed to Binary Alignment Map (BAM) format using samtools v1.13 66. Reads were sorted by their positions in the reference genome using picard tools 67. A BAM index was created and the variant calling was carried out using the methods implemented in bcftools v1.13. Finally, to remove low quality variants (e.g., variants with a low read depth or variants only supported by poorly aligned reads) from our data set, a quality ﬁltering was applied to the VCF ﬁle using the command bcftools view (bcftools view -i 'QUAL>19 && DP>2$ && (AC/AN)>0.05 && MQ>20'). In our study, the VCF ﬁle was used for linkage disequilibrium (LD) decay analysis, using the software PopLDdecay v3.40 68. 
