The access of RNA data of each genotype used are located here:
https://bk-genomica.cebas.csic.es:5001/sharing/blQRAvELn



A total of 400mg of RNA was extracted from berry pericarp tissue (entire berries without seeds), a detailed description about RNA extraction and library preparation and sequencing of the 120 samples (10 varieties at four stages, in total 40 triplicate samples) can be also found in (Massonnet, M. et al. 2017). The complete information of the yielded 120 SRA ﬁles, downloaded from two BioProjects PRJNA265040 and PRJNA265039, can be found in supplemental tables. All the steps for RNA-seq analysis were performed in the UConn CBC Xanadu cluster belonging to the University of Connecticut, USA. This cluster also has SLURM as managing software. The general workﬂow used in this part can be observed in the workflow. For RNA data, after the quality control (QC) step, Trimmomatic was used to trim low quality and adapter contaminated sequences. In this case, the alignment of reads to the reference genome was performed by HISAT2 v2.2.1. HISAT2 is a fast and sensitive aligner for mapping next generation sequencing reads against a reference genome. Before the alignment, the hisat2 build module was used to make a HISAT index ﬁle for the genome. By default, HISAT2 outputs the alignments in SAM format. Again samtools was used to sort the sequences, convert them to binary format and compress them. Finally, the function htseq-count from the HTSeq v0.13.5 package was used to count how many reads map to each annotated exon (gene) in the genome. The ﬁnal count for each gene was obtained from sum values for all their exons. These ﬁnal counts per gene are the inputs of the R package DESeq2 v3.13, used for the differential expression analysis. 

